1) git config

Sets configuration values for your user name, email file formats and more. 

Example: git config --global user.name "Kamal Singh"

2) git init

Initializes a git repository – creates the initial ‘.git’ directory in a new or in an existing project.

3) git clone

Makes a Git repository copy from a remote source. Also adds the original location as a remote so you can fetch from it again and push to it if you have permissions. Example: git clone ssh link

4) git add

Adds files changes in your working directory to your index. Example: git add .

5) git rm

Removes files from your index and your working directory so they will not be tracked. Example: git rm filename

6) git commit

Takes all of the changes written in the index, creates a new commit object pointing to it and sets the branch to point to that new commit. 

7) git status

Shows you the status of files in the index versus the working directory. 

8) git branch

Lists existing branches. Creates a new branch if a branch name is provided. Example: git branch 

9) git checkout

Checks out a different branch – switches branches by updating the index, working tree, and HEAD to reflect the chosen branch. Example: git checkout newbranch

10) git merge

Merges one or more branches into your current branch and automatically creates a new commit if there are no conflicts. Example: git merge newbranchversion

11) git reset

Resets your index and working directory to the state of your last commit. Example: git reset --hard HEAD

12) Tags a specific commit with a simple, human readable handle that never moves. Example: git tag -a v1.0 -m 'this is version 1.0 tag'

13) git fetch

Fetches all the objects from the remote repository that are not present in the local one. Example: git fetch origin

14) git pull

Fetches the files from the remote repository and merges it with your local one. This command is equal to the git fetch and the git merge sequence. Example: git pull origin

15) git push

Pushes all the modified local objects to the remote repository and advances its branches. Example: git push origin master

16) git remote

Shows all the remote versions of your repository. Example: git remote origin

17) git log

Shows a listing of commits on a branch including the corresponding details. Example: git log 
 
18) git log --graph --pretty=oneline --abbrev-commit

Shows tree based commit structure 
